I uploaded a new dataset because I was having trouble getting the anole data to properly run through the permutation test I wanted to do. I wanted to replicate the test that Jonathan showed us with the field vs forest ant colonies, but scrambling the ambient temperature recorded at urban versus natural sites. My goal was to identify whether these habitats were experiencing a 'hotspot' effect where urbanized sites had detectably higher ambient temperatures. All of my values (for 1000 permutations) were returning as 'NaN'. I should have saved this to show my work and where the error was coming from, but in a moment of frustration I deleted it all. That was my mistake.

The dataset I am using now is a dataset produced by our lab a couple years ago, from a project on which I assisted. We deployed experimentally-created colonies of social spiders across South Africa and Namibia and monitored their success or demise in their environments. The colonies were deployed along two precipitation gradients (from Kalahari Desert towards the wetter east coast, and from the Namib Desert towards the wetter Caprivi region).

Part of this project involved recording the number of insect carcasses that were woven into their nests (they weave and incorporate their spent prey items into the 3-D structure of their colonies). The permutation tests I'm running here are testing whether the number of prey items caught differs across colonies from wet versus arid sites. I have already worked with this dataset, so while the coding went smoother than it did with the anoles, it did not yield any new insights. Colonies at wet sites do indeed enjoy a higher rate of prey capture compared to their arid-dwelling conspecifics. Good for them. 